The last thing we are going to do
to this App is finish our quest for
API documentation.
So we already have this
API extractor in place and
that's whats giving, This nice API report.
It's helping us make very deliberate and
highly visible changes to our API surface.
So all that remains is for
us to hook up this.
This API document or tool.
Let's begin by installing.
Again, it's a work workspace dependency.
This one's really easy.
Oops, what's going on here?
Sorry, it's Microsoft API documented now.
I have a somewhat more complicated
than normal script here.
We can just copy that into
your scripts workspace folder.
Now let me tell you what this is doing.
This is an attempt to make sure that your
API Doc's are always up to date, and
that entails a totally fresh build,
so that you pick up on everything.
Right, you're not, you don't have
out of date type information.
And you're building your docks
off of stale build output.
So we clean, get a fresh build.
And then we run that api report and
running this command
this way instead of going dash,
dash, local.
Right?
Running the command this way means that we
will fail unless everything's up-to-date.
So you're not building API docs
unless you've sorta given a thumbs
up to any intentional changes you
made to the public API surface.
Now, GitHub Pages has recently
advanced significantly.
It used to be that you had
to publish mark down or
HTML, whatever you wanted
to put on your GitHub page.
You had to put that on a special,
Branch called gh pages.
Now you can put it on any branch and
potentially just in any folder you like.
Now, the docs gets themed and
there's a config yamo Yml file
that says which theme you're using,
so I detect if it exists.
And if it does, I move that file out of
the way because we're about to blow that
Doc's folder away and recreate it.
And then later if we found that
it did exist, we put it back And
then in the meantime, between those two
things, we run this api-documenter thing.
So we go yarn api-documenter.
We want to generate markdown, and
I'll talk about the other
output option in just a sec.
Our input folder is this root level temp
folder containing all of these json files.
And then the output folder is docs.
I'm just going to make sure I
don't have dogs around already.
So let's see.
O think I have to do a couple
more things to Ahmad.
Make sure that script is executable.
I have to make sure that I've
wired it up in my package, JSON.
So here I'll need API Doc's.
And now it should be good to go.
Let's see what happens.
So we're cleaning.
We are now building
everything from scratch.
We have some build errors.
What happened here.
This is strange.
Let's just try building it normally.
You know what might be happening here?
There we go.
Now we're seeing the problem.
So, I think when we do yarn, or
TSC dash B packages it might,
I don't think it's doing the layering up.
That we need for
like that what learners doing,
where it starts from the bottom and
works at way up.
Its way up.
So let's try it learner run build.
And I think there's something
we could do to fix this.
So if this works,
we still have a problem All right.
I believe you.
So, this is it's useful for you to for
me to verbalise how I kind of
deal with this kind of problem.
So here's what I suspect I'm looking at
this right we're in this data layer, and
I am reading this information from another
package, right, another local package.
I know what's going on here.
Here you go.
So here's where the error is happening.
I see that I get this piece
of type information and
I don't get this piece
of type information.
What's going on.
Well I wanna look at the decoration file.
I wanna look at the types.
And I do notice that we've got
potentially our beta somewhere in here.
So this is not a publicly
available method.
So I can deal with this.
And I'll show you how I
would go about it here.
So, back in my data folder,
I basically want to say look,
I want to use the beta things that
are exposed from this package.
It is it is pretty simple to do.
So, just need to go to this Ts config for
the project.
And it's a compiler option
paths Slack types and
we're just going to point
it to node modules.
Types sorry.
This and then types beta, DTS.
So I'm saying don't use
the regular type information.
Use this file.
And I have to say base URL is this folder.
That should go away.
All right now, nothing's picking up yet.
First thing I want to do is
restart my language server and
let's see if this symbol comes through.
Interesting Ts config.
Let's look in this dist folder.
Alright, so there's the types Clearly,
it's not coming through because we're
looking at this declaration file.
There's one more thing I could try here.
No.
I already have this
I can get around this more easily by
just making those no longer beta.
I think part of the problem here is,
I have two different
competing lookup mechanisms.
On the one hand,
there's no require resolve.
On the other hand, there's This TypeScript
composite project where I'm saying go and
actually look at the source code,
the TS files in this other project.
So let's untangle that
a bit by just saying,
we're just going to expose
the the API surface directly index.
And then all this stuff should
just go away and be happy.
And we may need another belt.
Let's see.
Looks good.
All right, so that took care of it.
Let's try the API docs again
Much better.
There is API extractor
finishing each package.
Okay, completed successfully.
Look at our Docs folder got
a bunch of good stuff in there.